Hey guys and this video I'm going to show you how to implement a bootstrap nav bar with a WordPress
theme using W.P. bootstrap nav Walker.
All right.
So this is a really popular script that will integrate your nav bar so that you can create sub items
and things like that.
So you want to go to this you get hub page and we're going to just go ahead and download the zip K and
if you open that up you'll have a folder and that will have the p p file inside of it.
OK so what we want to do is let's open up our project folder.
OK.
And we're just going to bring that P2P file into our folder.
OK close up.
And now we want to open up the functions P2P file and we want to include that files so let's go to the
top here and let's do the choir once
and we're going to put in W.P. underscore bootstrap underscore.
Now Walker Daut ph p.
Ok so will bring it in
and then make sure that saved.
And if we go to the get hub page and look and see that we just did this step.
Now the usage we want to use this W.P. nav menu function inside of our nav bar.
All right.
So let's grab this whole thing and copy it and then go into our header file where nav bar is and go
down into.
Into this is divorcée have the collapse class.
Right above the form and we're going to paste this in
.
All right.
So this basically defines a bunch of options for us.
We don't need all of this stuff.
I'm going to get rid of this menu item here.
OK we want the theme location which is going to be primary depth is 2.
That's good.
Let's see container.
We're going to set container to false.
Get rid of the quotes in and we don't need a container class or a container Id get rid of that Menu
class.
That's good.
Fall back.
That's fine and that's good.
OK so let's keep it just like that and save it now and go back to our functions P P and we want to register
our NAV menus so inside of this theme set up
we're going to say register
register now menus and that's going to take in an array.
OK.
So this is going to be called primary and we're going to set that to double underscore parentheses and
then the readable name which will just be primary menu
.
OK so we'll save that.
Let's go back to the get hub page.
So we did this we did this.
That's fine.
All right so make sure everything is saved and then we're going to go back into the backend and go down
to appearance and you should have this menu option.
OK we're going to click that.
You know what let's create an extra page
so it will say about
publish.
Let's create one more and we'll call this
our team
cray and then we're going to go back to the menus page and take a look at this menu and let's go ahead
and say create a menu and then you want to make sure you check this right here.
Primary menu and then save it.
All right.
And then we'll go to our front end and reload and you can see we have our menu and it works.
So let's test out the dropdown functionality all we should have to do is take one of these and put them
right in here we'll put the our team in there as well and then save menu go back.
And now we have a dropdown.
All right.
So awesome.
So you can see how easy that was to implement an NAV bar.
And this is definitely something that you could use in other projects as well.
Any kind of bootstrap WordPress theme.
All right so now what I want to do is get the sidebar set up so that we can add sidebar widgets so we're
still in the functions P file.
We're going to go underneath the add action here and let's create a function
and we're going to call this init underscore widgets.
OK.
And that's going to take an ID.
Now in here we want to say register sidebar
and that's going to take in an array and then we have a bunch of options.
So let's say you name a sidebar
ID
side.
All right.
Now we can also include other things here for instance we can say before widget.
Now what this does is it allows us to insert code right before the widget renders.
So we're going to need this because we want our widgets to render inside bootstrap panels.
So we need to include the Pernod classes.
So let's put a div in a class of panel and also panel default.
Right.
And then let's do it after widget.
And that's just going to be to ending divs.
All right.
Now we also have the ability to add content before and after the title which we also want to do.
So for this one for title
and this is going to have a div with the class of panel heading.
OK.
And then we also want to the age three and we're going to give that a class
of panel title
right.
And then finally we'll do after title
that's going to be the ending.
H-3 and then div and then we also want the start of the panel body
.
OK so that should be good.
Now we need to have an action Soldan say add action
right.
And the hook will be widgets.
Underscore that.
Right.
And then of course the function we want to call is in widgets.
So make sure that saved.
And if you go to the back end and reload.
You should now have a widget option under appearance and you should also see sidebar.
So what I'm going to do is bring over category's